Title: Licorn® 2.0 mini-roadmap
Tags: development, status, roadmap, ideas, goals

Here are some of the 2.0 milestone goals. Do not consider this post exhaustive; these are just the things I could rassemble this evening. But you (and I) can now have a better idea of what is going on in `chani:~/sources/licorn` ;-)

## Use Python 3

Yeah. This sounds big. It's [more than the right time](http://programmers.stackexchange.com/a/63935/87629).

The 1.6 codebase is quite huge and some of its parts show their age; others are *waayyyy* too complex for many {good, historical, pedagogical} reasons. That's part of why Licorn® 2.0 is a rewrite from scratch.

What is more than a rewrite from scratch a perfect pretext to switch to Python 3.0? Licorn® 2.0 is the future. Backward compatibility will be implemented only on the functional level.

## Use PIP only in developer installs

We will not mix APT packages anymore, even if available given the LSB current version.

In the past, this has complicated the code and required a much bigger effort to backport DEB packages. It has swallowed a bunch of developer time and didn't work very well anyway.

It's not in Licorn® prerogatives to pilot the package management for its own dependancies. The developer install will check and install missing dependancies via a simple `pip install -r requirements.txt`, to allow an easy installation.

As a consequence, it will be up to the Debian packagers to provide a complete packaged environment if a Licorn® package is desired. Developers will not be required to create them. I already run Licorn® in developer mode (on the stable `master` branch) on all my production servers; this is like deploying a Django application via `Fabric` and doesn't hurt at all.

## Be hackable on `GitHub`

This is not a normalization per-se, but [GitHub](http://github.com/) is so widely used that hosting code there will ease contributions, hopefuly.

The authoritative repository and issue tracker will still be on [Dev2](http://dev.licorn.org/), but I will setup automatic push to github. As for the issues, I don't want to use github; but some users will probably fill issues there. I will investigate how to avoid duplicate work if possible.

## Switch to Pyro 4

This is already on the way in my private repository. Pyro 4.x is simpler and much cleaner. It seems faster, too.

Licorn® 2.0 daemons will not be compatible with 1.6 ones; switching to Pyro 4 is natural. The future is coming, don't stand in the way.

## Split `licornd` into many daemons

I already tried this approach in the past but it didn't work because the Licorn® core was too complex and a little over-engineer (hundreds of locks, complex remote methods via Pyro, undebuggable `pickle` problems due to threading obscurantism…).

Split daemons will obviously benefit from multi-core machines and will reduce the daemon current complexity. It *must* be a goal, for the sake of simplicity and the comfort of beiing able to restart the main daemon without needing to tear down and reinstall 100k inotifies, which takes ages. Sure, it will imply a rewrite of the core, but it's already in progress.

Pyro will continue to be used for CLI and network communications. Local daemons should implement something straightforward like `multiprocessing.Queue`, if it fits the requirements.

## Apply DRY principles, and implement FST everywhere

FST stands for “ *F…g Simple Technology* ”. It's like KISS, but even more simpler.

Like I said before some parts of Licorn® are much too complex for what they offer. I think about the `*.check.conf` parser which isn't commented at all and use `eval()` just to create core objects from a configuration file, but there are other parts in the same boat. Refactoring them is a headache, but rewriting them from scratch should be an order of magnitude simpler, precisely because the real feature to implement is simple.

I'm a small developer team ;-) Maintainability and flexibility is essential. The code should be shorter and more readable (not *shorter and unreadable*!).

## Use external Python PIP libraries

In the last 2 years of development, this has already been the case but only new parts benefited from this approach. There are plenty of cool python packages that could help me focus on new features rather than reimplement the wheel.

Then why restart from scratch? Because Licorn® is too big, and while extensions and other

## Be installable via PIP

This is a nice side effect. While this is not mandatory in my mind, I would really love to upload a `licorn-2.0` package to [PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/), and see it adopted by a `devopts` audience for wider use and perhaps contributions.
